README.md, before:

# TaskByte - Modern Task Management App

A modern task management application with advanced user experience, featuring dynamic task organization and intuitive interface design.

![TaskByte Screenshot](./attached_assets/20250223_125009.png)

## Features

- ✨ Modern, responsive interface
- 📱 Bottom navigation with floating action button
- 📅 Calendar view for task scheduling
- 🏷️ Category-based task organization
- 📊 Task progress tracking
- 🎯 Task suggestions
- ⚡ Real-time updates

## Tech Stack

- **Frontend:**
  - React with Vite
  - Zustand for state management
  - TanStack Query for data fetching
  - Tailwind CSS + shadcn/ui for styling
  - date-fns for date manipulation
  - Lucide React for icons

- **Backend:**
  - Express.js
  - PostgreSQL with Drizzle ORM
  - Zod for validation

## Quick Start

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/taskbyte.git
cd taskbyte
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```

3. Set up environment variables:
Create a `.env` file with:
```
DATABASE_URL=your_postgresql_database_url
```

4. Start the development server:
```bash
npm run dev
```

The application will be available at `http://localhost:5000`.

## Project Structure

```
├── client/
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/
│   │   │   ├── ui/           # shadcn/ui components
│   │   │   ├── task-card.tsx
│   │   │   ├── task-calendar.tsx
│   │   │   ├── task-filters.tsx
│   │   │   ├── task-form.tsx
│   │   │   ├── task-list.tsx
│   │   │   ├── task-progress.tsx
│   │   │   └── task-suggestions.tsx
│   │   ├── pages/
│   │   │   ├── home.tsx      # Task list view
│   │   │   ├── calendar-view.tsx
│   │   │   └── me-view.tsx   # User profile & progress
│   │   └── App.tsx
├── server/
│   ├── routes.ts
│   ├── storage.ts
│   └── index.ts
└── shared/
    └── schema.ts
```

## Core Features

### Task Management
- Create, update, and delete tasks
- Mark tasks as complete/incomplete
- Set due dates and categories
- Filter tasks by category

### Calendar View
- View tasks in a calendar layout
- Navigate between months
- Quick view of upcoming tasks

### Progress Tracking
- View overall task completion progress
- Track tasks by category
- Visual progress indicators

## API Endpoints

### Tasks
- `GET /api/tasks` - Get all tasks
- `POST /api/tasks` - Create a new task
- `PATCH /api/tasks/:id` - Update a task
- `DELETE /api/tasks/:id` - Delete a task

### Categories
- `GET /api/categories` - Get all categories
- `POST /api/categories` - Create a new category


## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`
3. Commit your changes: `git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`
4. Push to the branch: `git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

Agent query: I've prepared all your code for GitHub including the new category deletion feature. I've also created detailed setup instructions and documentation. Would you like me to continue trying to fix the configuration issue, or would you prefer to get the current stable version of the code to upload to GitHub?
Enhance category management: Add create, delete, and color assignment features for categories; improve setup instructions and error handling.

README.md, after:

# TaskByte - Modern Task Management App

A modern task management application with advanced user experience, featuring dynamic task organization and intuitive interface design.

![TaskByte Screenshot](./attached_assets/20250223_125009.png)

## Features

- ✨ Modern, responsive interface
- 📱 Bottom navigation with floating action button
- 📅 Calendar view for task scheduling
- 🏷️ Category-based task organization
- 📊 Task progress tracking
- 🎯 Task suggestions
- ⚡ Real-time updates

## Tech Stack

- **Frontend:**
  - React with Vite
  - Zustand for state management
  - TanStack Query for data fetching
  - Tailwind CSS + shadcn/ui for styling
  - date-fns for date manipulation
  - Lucide React for icons

- **Backend:**
  - Express.js
  - PostgreSQL with Drizzle ORM
  - Zod for validation

## Quick Start

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/taskbyte.git
cd taskbyte
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```

3. Set up environment variables:
Create a `.env` file with:
```
DATABASE_URL=your_postgresql_database_url
```

4. Start the development server:
```bash
npm run dev
```

The application will be available at `http://localhost:5000`.

## Project Structure

```
├── client/
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/
│   │   │   ├── ui/           # shadcn/ui components
│   │   │   ├── task-card.tsx
│   │   │   ├── task-calendar.tsx
│   │   │   ├── task-filters.tsx
│   │   │   ├── task-form.tsx
│   │   │   ├── task-list.tsx
│   │   │   ├── task-progress.tsx
│   │   │   └── task-suggestions.tsx
│   │   ├── pages/
│   │   │   ├── home.tsx      # Task list view
│   │   │   ├── calendar-view.tsx
│   │   │   └── me-view.tsx   # User profile & progress
│   │   └── App.tsx
├── server/
│   ├── routes.ts
│   ├── storage.ts
│   └── index.ts
└── shared/
    └── schema.ts
```

## Core Features

### Task Management
- Create, update, and delete tasks
- Mark tasks as complete/incomplete
- Set due dates and categories
- Filter tasks by category

### Calendar View
- View tasks in a calendar layout
- Navigate between months
- Quick view of upcoming tasks

### Progress Tracking
- View overall task completion progress
- Track tasks by category
- Visual progress indicators

### Category Management
- Create custom categories
- Assign colors to categories
- Delete categories (tasks will be moved to "general")

## API Endpoints

### Tasks
- `GET /api/tasks` - Get all tasks
- `POST /api/tasks` - Create a new task
- `PATCH /api/tasks/:id` - Update a task
- `DELETE /api/tasks/:id` - Delete a task

### Categories
- `GET /api/categories` - Get all categories
- `POST /api/categories` - Create a new category
- `DELETE /api/categories/:id` - Delete a category

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`
3. Commit your changes: `git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`
4. Push to the branch: `git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.
